#summary You can easily change the dataset being reported or the layout of the report.
#labels How-To
#sidebar TableOfContents

= Introduction =

Jasperoo is powered by Jasper Reports, so for detailed instructions it would be wise to Google [http://www.google.com/search?sourceid=chrome&client=ubuntu&channel=cs&ie=UTF-8&q=jasper+reports+instructions Jasper Reports Instructions]. There are two main editing tasks I will discuss here though: *Changing the Dataset*, and *Editing The Layout*.


= Details =

== Changing the Dataset ==
The dataset is determined by specifying a Roo finder in the request mapping method of the Report Controller. (By default this can be found at: ~.web.ReportController.java)

{{{
	@RequestMapping(value ="/ownerList/{format}", method = RequestMethod.GET)
	public String reportOwnerList(ModelMap modelMap, @PathVariable("format") String format) {
		JRBeanCollectionDataSource jrDataSource = new JRBeanCollectionDataSource(com.springsource.petclinic.domain.Owner.findAllOwners(),false);
		modelMap.put("reportData", jrDataSource);
		modelMap.put("format", format);
		return "ownerReportList";
	}
}}}

Just edit the finder defined in the creation of the jrDataSource object. So if you had a finder defined against your Owner class that would find Owners by last name, you would change the jrDataSource declaration to read something like:
{{{
JRBeanCollectionDataSource jrDataSource = new JRBeanCollectionDataSource(com.springsource.petclinic.domain.Owner.findOwnersByLastName("someLastName"),false);
}}}
I won't go into how you would pass the last name here.

== Editing The Layout ==
Jasper Report layouts are all defined in xml files with a *jrxml* extension. The easiest way to edit these files is with the use of iReport from Jasper Forge. [http://jasperforge.org/projects/ireport].

iReport is a powerful xml editor tailored specifically to Jasper Reports. You can however edit the *jrxml* file by hand.

The files can be found in the reports folder under WEB-INF. There is one for each entity against which *jasperoo add* has been called.

The tags you'll be most likely interested in are the *<columnHeader>* and *<detail>* tags.

The syntax is pretty self evident, and beyond the scope of this page, but again for more detailed help I would direct you to [http://jasperforge.org/projects/jasperreports Jasper Reports].